Team Terabyte - A3: Our IT Project

CONTENTS
1   TEAM PROFILE...............................................................2
1.1   Team Information.........................................................2
1.2   Test Results.............................................................2
1.3   Ideal Jobs...............................................................2
1.4   Group Processes..........................................................2
1.5   Career Plans.............................................................2
2   TOOLS......................................................................3
3   PROJECT DESCRIPTION........................................................4
3.1   Overview.................................................................4
3.2   Aims.....................................................................4
3.3   Plans and Progress.......................................................4
3.4   Roles....................................................................4
3.5   Scope and Limits.........................................................4
3.6   Tools and Technologies...................................................4
3.7   Testing..................................................................4
3.8   Timeframe................................................................4
3.9   Risks....................................................................4
3.10  Group Processes and Communications.......................................4
4   SKILLS AND JOBS............................................................5
4.1   Project Manager..........................................................5
4.2   Designers................................................................5
4.3   Developer................................................................5
4.4   Quality Assurance Specialist.............................................5
5   ARTIFACTS..................................................................6
5.1   GlobeLogger App..........................................................6
5.2   Firebase Database........................................................6
5.3   GlobeLogger Website......................................................6
6   GROUP REFLECTION...........................................................7
6.1   Anabel Gonzalez..........................................................7
6.2   Joel Baden...............................................................7
6.3   Joseph Tselios...........................................................7
6.4   Nathan Layt..............................................................7
6.5   Summary..................................................................7


1 - Team Profile
Introduction to IT Group 7 - TEAM TERABYTE

1.1 - Team Information

Anabel Gonzalez - Student Number S3858832 - Team Terabyte
31 year old student from Argentina, I moved to Australia eight years ago. My
native language is Spanish, I took English classes in high school but I'm mostly
self-taught. I finished my Diploma of Website Development two months ago and I
want to progress in my career by pursuing a Bachelors Degree. Over the last
couple of years I've been learning Graphic Design, on my own, which led me to
open an Etsy Shop where I sell digital products and services.

Joel Baden - Student Number: S3855896 - Team Terabyte
24 year old from Geelong. My parents are from Australia, although I have German
heritage on my Dad’s side of the family. My daily activities involve commuting
to Melbourne multiple times a week for work and athletics training, whilst
pursuing higher education on the side. My interests are varied, I grew up in a
musical family and enjoy playing the piano & producing music. I like keeping
fit, and regularly train and compete in local/international competitions for
Athletics. IT has been a subject on my radar for the past year and a half, and I
 have just recently decided to pursue it in higher education after
 semi-completing both science & art degrees. My interest stems primarily from
the growing demand in jobs within that sector and landing a job that involves a
certain element of creativity. Most of my personal time is spent learning and
mastering new software, mostly in the context of music production but also
video-editing. Developing my knowledge in I.T is something I believe can
complement my already existing passions whilst increasing my job prospects.

Joseph Tselios - Student Number: S3858508 - Team Terabyte
24 year old student currently living in Melbourne, Australia. My parents are
from Greece and Italy, however I still consider myself to be Australian. My
education has been placed on hold for a few years since I started to work full
time at a very young age, however I'm back at it again with a focus on finding
a career that I'm passionate about. My hobbies are listening to music, working
out and, of course, League of Legends. I have very little experience in IT but I
hope that my education and professionalism will encourage employers to give me
an opportunity.

Nathan Layt - Student Number: S3831623 - Team Terabyte
34 year old student from Brisbane. I went to school at Westside Christian
College then I went to work for Murrays Mining Services, a family company
specialising in underground coal mining machinery parts and repairs. I worked
as a Service Clerk then as a Sales Administrator at Komatsu and I worked as a
Geotechnician for Xstrata Mount Isa Mines. My interest in IT started when I was
very young and had a keen interest in computer games which lead to an interest
in building and upgrading computers. My IT experience started with what I
learned growing up with a PC and expands to the areas I learned and developed
throughout my career including MS Office Suite, database building and
administration, SAP experience and even basic programming of instrumentation.
Probably my favourite hobby is travelling, which is what lead to our project
idea. I started travelling overseas when I was 15 and I've been to over 20
countries, with long stays in Germany and Thailand. I have forgotten most of my
German language but I speak Thai ok with a north-eastern dialect.

1.2 - Test Results
Since we have each completed 3 personality tests to better understand ourselves,
we are able to analyse the differences and similarities between group members.
The key takeaways from these tests are the type of personalities that we each
have and what we offer to the group.

While Joseph is classified as a 'protagonist' that is quite extroverted,
intuitive and feeling based, Nathan, Joel and Anabel were classified as being
the more introverted personality types. This suggests that Nathan, Joel and
Anabel should be able to quietly achieve things within the group, while Joseph
may be more likely to spark the start of a conversation, bringing new topics to
light so that all aspects of the project will be covered.

Interestingly, Nathan has the quality of being introverted but also providing
leadership towards the group, and this has been evident in our work so far.
Anabel is classified as a 'mediator' which is a very important personality to
have in a group. If conflict ever occurs, we may be able to look towards Anabel
to assess the situation and figure out conflict resolution quickly and easily.

1.3 Ideal Jobs
Within the group we see quite a bit of difference between each other's ideal
jobs, while containing some overlap in required knowledge, they are mostly
distinct in their end goals. Nathan, Joel and Anabel are all interested in what
appears to be frontend developing environments that involve user experience,
user interface designs and require an in-depth understanding of programming
languages like Javascript and CSS. Both Joel and Anabel's ideal jobs as a web
developer and as an iOS developer further require strong graphic design skills
and mobile app experience, despite the end products being different in nature -
website vs iOS applications. Nathan's job description, whilst requiring many of
the same skills, does not specify a particular platform to which the software
will be implemented, perhaps indicating a more general development role.
Joseph's ideal job for a Level 1 IT Help Desk position requires a different set
of skills, unique to the rest of the group, including telephone and remote
support for end-users, installation and configuring of client's desktops and
on-site technical support. This position does not involve developing products
but is more about technical support in the service industry. Although members of
the group are not currently qualified for their ideal jobs, everyone is working
towards it, either through the completion of a degree in IT with RMIT or other
relevant certificates.

1.4 Group Processes
The active members of the group worked well together in Assignment 2, to
overcome the disadvantage of inactive members, quickly adaping to the challenges
of working in a group to produce a satisfactory result. MS Teams proved a very
effective collaboration platform and will no doubt continue to serve the team
well in Assignment 3. Regular online meetings were very productive, the only
change that would be good in A3 is the attendance of all group members. A2
lacked the appropriate use of version control which affected group members that
were waiting on others to finish work instead of proper collaboration. The lack
of version control was also noted in feedback and had a negative effect on A2
marking, so the major process change for A3 will be the implementation of proper
version control through effective use of GitHub and any other relevant tools.

1.5 - Career Plans

Anabel Gonzalez
Short-term (3+ years):
- Graduate as a Bachelor of IT
- Get a job as a junior web or iOS app developer. As mentioned before, become a
web developer and/or iOS developer is my ideal job and after reading the tutor's
 feedback my plans haven't changed.

The goal is to learn all the required skills to become an efficient and
successful developer. Examples of technologies, programming languages or skills
that I would like to learn are:
- Php, Java, Swift, JavaScript
- Databases design, management and development
- Systems design - MVP development
- Project management - UX/UI basics
- Cybersecurity

Medium-term (5+ years):
- Become a Senior/Lead Developer The goal is to gain experience in managing
teams, deadlines, budgets, etc.

Long-term (8+ years):
- Study an MBA Postgraduate course
- Start a website & app development agency

The goal is to acquire all the required knowledge to run a business so I can
then create and run a company specialised on eCommerce website & app development
 to help businesses with their online store needs

Joel Baden
Short Term (3+ years)
- Graduate in a Bachelor of IT
- Get work experience in any IT related job, such as an IT help desk position
or web-design and development. Ideally having work experience in the field in
conjunction with completing my bachelor will prepare me well for more complex
positions and will help narrow out what aspects within IT I find most engaging.
- Gain an general understanding of essential skills such as programming
languages, working with databases, graphic design and project management.

Medium-Long Term goals include:
- Working in web-design or development
- Create my own web-design business
- Possibly pursuing a programming position within an audio-plugin company
- Learning the relevant skills, programming languages and techniques.
Luckily c++ is widely used to design audio plugins and vst’s, so I would expect
to already have some experience working with this language.
- Depending on whether I get ample experience, I would like to start my own
audio-plugin company.

Joseph Tselios
Short-term (3+ years):
- Graduate with a bachelor of Information Technology
- Get a job as a helpdesk officer or a low level IT job that will introduce me
to the industry.

After reading the tutor's feedback my plans have actually changed. I’ve looked
towards the future more deeply and I would like to eventually create software
that assists with peoples lives in all aspects. Whether it be through
entertainment, healthcare I want to create software’s that can better us as
people.

The skills I will need to learn will be vast, but the starting skills I’ll need
will be:
- Mathematical aptitude
- Problem-solving skills
- Programming languages (different types of developer role require different
languages)
- Excellent organizational and time management skills
- Accuracy and attention to detail
- An understanding of the latest trends and their role in a commercial
environment
- Teamwork skills
- Self-development skills to keep up to date with fast-changing trends

 Long-term (8+ years):
- Develop a software to change peoples lives

Nathan Layt
Short Term (3+ years)
-Complete Bachelors Degree in Information Technology or related field.
-Secure a Graduate position with a reputable company in Brisbane.

This is consistant with my ideal job, which has not changed after feedback.

Medium Term (5+ years)
Gain experience by working in roles for 2-3 years then applying for more senior
roles or roles in different companies and industries.

Long Term (8+ Years)
Complete a postgraduate degree (Masters)
Eventually I would like to use my experience to start my own business or move on
 to a training or educational role.

Summary
All group members plan on completing a Bachelor of Information Technology or
similar degree as part of their short term career plans. Securing an entry level
 job is also part of the short term plan for all group members. Anabel and
Joseph both have a specific role in mind, whereas Joel and Nathan both have the
more general goal of securing any entry level role in the IT industry. Joseph
notes that his career plans have changed as a result of feedback from his tutor,
 other group members note that their plans remain unchanged.

All group members note that work experience through employment is an essential
part of their medium term career plans. Anabel and Nathan note that securing a
more senior position could be the motivation for gaining experience. Most
members identify programming as an area where they would like to develop their
skills.

In the long term, Anabel and Nathan both plan to gain further education through
postgraduate courses. All members plan on using their experience to do something
 that they can call their own. Anabel, Joel and Nathan all mention a desire to
start their own business and Joseph would like to develop his own software,
which could mean starting his own business or it could mean securing a role for
a company that would pay him to develop the software. Nathan is the only member
considering training or teaching.

Although there are some slight difference in career plans for all group members,
 it is interesting to see how similar our ideas for the future are, even in the
long term.


2 - Tools

As was the case in Assignment 2, MS Teams was the main platform for discussion
and collaboration. GitHub Desktop and Atom Text Editor were used to facilitate
better utilisation of GitHub to provide version control and a log of activity.

Link to Group's Website -

Link to Group's Git Repository -
https://github.com/teamterabyte/Assessment-3-Our-IT-Project

The audit trail on the Git repository ...(insert comments)

3 - Project Description


3.1 - Overview

3.1.1 Topic

GlobeLogger would be aimed specifically at people that frequently travel
overseas. The main purpose is to serve as an accurate record of travel
destinations and dates, as well as giving the user a feeling of accomplishment
 with every location added.
Our objective is to lunch a Beta version of the web app with limited
functionality that we can improve in the future.

3.1.2 Motivation

Nathan, one of Team Terabyte’s members, is an avid traveller that visited more
than 20 countries. He had a vision of creating a web application to record all
the places he has visited in the past and plan new destination ideas. As a team,
 we found the idea really interesting and decided to choose it as the team’s
 project.
We strongly believe that the project is an excellent portfolio item to show
prospective employers not only our capabilities as developers but also our
ability to work as part of a team.

3.1.3 Landscape

Millennials (Ages 24-39) love to travel and they make it a priority in their
lives . They save a large part of their incomes to afford travelling across
different local and international destinations.
There are several companies that offer advice to travellers and even products or
 services. This fact is not a surprise as millennials are the largest generation
 up to date representing a 31.5% of the global population. In 2018 only, US
millennials spent $200 billion on travel.   Examples of social media  web apps
 and mobile apps for travellers are:

  •	Travelloapp - https://travelloapp.com/

  Travello is a social media app where travellers can meet, connect and learn
  from others. It has a reward system where users can earn points and exchange
  them for Travello experiences.
  Users can also share travel updates and photos and discover deals.

  •	Tripadvisor – https://www.tripadvisor.com.au/

  Tripadvisor is an online travel company. Is not strictly a social media but
  has a big component of user-generated content, where readers can share
  experiences, rate hotels and restaurants and share photos of the places
  they’ve been to.

GlobeLogger features are similar to Travelloapp, users can display the places
they have visited in the past and connect with other travellers. However,
GlobeLogger will not offer reward systems or meeting. GlobeLogger doesn’t share
many similarities with Tripadvisor other than the ability to add destinations to
 the user profile and the social media-like style of the website.


3.2 - Aims

The aim is to have a fully operational, bug free, user friendly and entertaining
 social media orientated platform for planning, logging and sharing travel
information through an online profile. The platform would serve as a diary type
recording option for frequent travelers that would enjoy keeping track of
things, and provide users with a way to view their destinations as visually
displayed achievements that they can share with their friends, family and
other contacts.

To fulfill this aim our project team will need to achieve the following goals:

Goal-
Come up with a name and logo for the platform - This is an essential starting
point. Success in this area means creating something that people will recognise
and remember.

Progress-
03/05/2020: MS Teams discussion used to establish the name, "Globelogger".
09/05/2020: 2 Logo options created by Anabel posted to the Project Name section
of MS Teams.

Goal-
Establish a web presence - This would serve as an address for the project, for
developers to work with and for users to connect.

Progress-
Incomplete - delayed by suggestion that an app would be better than a website
based on feedback from A2.
19/05/2020: Nathan created Git Repository that can display work in progress
website through GitHub Pages.
23/05/2020: Work in progress website published at
https://teamterabyte.github.io/GlobeLogger/

Goal-
Add the User Profile function - This is how users will access the platform and
store and update their information.

Progress-
Incomplete

Goal-
Build a database - This will be the backbone of the project. Updated through the
user interface, it will store user information under their account name
(ideally their unique email adress).

Progress-
Incomplete

Goal-
Create an App - This would provide smartphone users with a user friendly way to
access the platform and path the way for additional features like GPS logging.

Progress-
18/05/2020: Anabel is designing screens for the app using Adobe XD.
18/05/2020: Anabel and Joel are using Thunkable to develop the app.

3.3 - Plans and Progress

The project idea for our previous assessment was to create a social media
platform for travellers and to build a responsive web app from scratch. However
due to the feedback received we decided to change our plan and build an app
instead of a website. Our technical skills and knowledge are not up to the
challenge so after careful consideration we decided to use Thunkable, a platform
 with advanced features to build apps without writing code. Our intention is to
create a prototype for demonstration purposes, with some of the GlobeLogger’s
features. We will explain more about Thunkable and the development process in
the Tools and Technologies section.
Nathan, the original creator of GlobeLogger, had a clear picture in his mind of
how the app would look like and the features that would need to be included.
Some of the characteristics and features are:

  •	Users need to create an account and sign in to be able to use the app. The
  details required are name (including first and last), email address, password
  and D.O.B.
  •	The users can edit their profile, add a profile image and current location.
  A single profile picture would be a central part of the user profile, this
  picture could be changed at any time however the platform would not store
  multiple profile pictures.
  •	Central to the profile would be a map highlighting travelled destinations,
  with an option to select specific locations to record / reveal more detailed
  information. This section, however, would be difficult if not impossible to
  implement using Thunkable.
  •	The user would enter travel times to display an accurate timeline. As
  previous travel may have happened a long time ago and exact dates could be
  difficult, trips that are entered into a profile would have optional selectio
  n for the year, month and day.
  •	Number of countries travelled to would be prominently displayed and have the
   feel of a “score” for the profile.
  •	You could add photos of specific destinations by selecting the relevant
  trip. The maximum number of photos for each country / trip would be quite
  limited as their purpose would mostly be for the memory of the profile user /
  proof of the trip / historical record more than the option of photos taking
  over the desired purpose of the platform if people wanted to flood their
  profiles with travel pics they wanted to share with their friends / the
  community.
  •	Users would be part of a network of friends that could view each other’s
  profiles and share their current travel activities.

We’ve designed the app UI using Adobe XD to demonstrate the app to potential
investors and developers. Designing the app screens also help to develop the
database and the Thunkable app prototype.

I’LL ADD MORE INFO ON FRIDAY/SATURDAY

3.4 - Roles

In our group, roles for each member may include Administrator for Nathan, UI
Designer for Anabel, (Designer/director?) for Joel , and content-professional
for Joseph.

Nathan can be assigned as such, as he conceived the original plan for
GlobeLogger including the major features, and is active in directing the scope
for the design or any additional features throughout its development.

Anabel would be considered the UI designer, due to her past experience in
graphics design and working with databases. She has covered the logos,
animations, and is designing/developing the UI for our project.

There isn’t a specified role for Joel, although he contributes with informing
the scope of the design, features of the app, and design elements in the
user-interface and assisting in the direction of the video-media to be
presented.

Joseph is the content-professional and spokes-person for the project. He was
keen on contributing in a creative manner and had proficiency in
editing/creating media-content. He would be responsible for producing media
which encapsulates the project’s vision - highlighting it’s major features in an
 engaging, marketable way.

3.5 - Scope and Limits


3.6 - Tools and Technologies

We have used Adobe XD to design the app screens as this tool allows the team to
work collaboratively and has advanced capabilities to create a very realistic
representation of the app UI.
As mentioned before, to build the prototype, we’ve used Thunkable. The platform
allows users to create apps for iOS and Android. With Thunkable it is possible
to build the app using blocks instead of code. We can drag and drop the
different user interface components and to add functionality to each element,
we can use the blocks as we were programming using code. Once the app prototype
is finished, we will export it as an executable (.apk) file that can be
installed on a phone. Additionally, it is possible to export the source code
(.aia) that can be edited using Thunkable.
To have control of the database and the customer’s details we’ve used a real
time database (Firebase Realtime). As Team Terabyte will own the Firebase
database it will be possible to connect that database to a custom-built app or
website in the future and sync data across devices. The data is stored as a
JSON object using keys association. The NoSQL nature of the database makes it
really important to structure the data in a “flat” way, as every time we fetch
data, we are also retrieving all the child nodes that are under that parent node
 and this impact directly in the monthly bill. Firebase also can be used as a
backend to authenticate users and we can assign different permission levels to
write and read data.
Significant funding would be required, especially to maintain Firebase and to
create a custom-built app for iOS and Android.



3.7 - Testing


3.8 - Timeframe

        (insert table here)

3.9 - Risks


3.10 - Group Processes and Communications


4 - Skills and Jobs

Introduction and Context

While developing our team project idea ‘GlobeLogger’ we were approached by
venture capitalists who fell in love with our idea that they want to fund us to
further development GlobeLogger even further. The time we have until expected
completion is six months. I have been appointed as manager and am able to hire
 4 people to assist with the development of the GlobeLogger. The questions that
you will all be asking is what positions would I choose? What skills with they
require? Find out all the answers below.


4.1 – Project Manager

We are a new organization that is coming up in the IT industry. If you are to
join us, you will experience what it is like to be part of a dynamic, growing,
and energetic organization. We offer a stimulating workplace and a challenging
one at that. While we are only an up and coming organization, we have already
started our first major project and now you have the opportunity to join us on
this journey. Being a smaller organization, allows us to really show our
employees how much we appreciate and value them.

We are currently looking for an IT Project Manager to be in charge of project
planning, resourcing, progress reporting, troubleshooting and people management.
 As a project manager you will be under a lot of pressure. We require someone
who can handle the heat, and lead a team through to the finish line. We need you
 to have deep and diverse knowledge in the business industry in relation to
mobile projects. You also need experience in management, development
methodologies, and mobile development.

Key Skills Required

Confidence in leading
Solid technical background
Good understanding of the business line
Inspire, manage and lead human resources
Possess high sense of responsibility
Proficient in multitasking

How we reward & support you:

If you are to become on of our valued employees, we offer a rewarding career
with many pathways and different projects that will make a difference to not
only your life, but all the lives around you. We also offer you the following:

Competitive Remuneration
Roster flexibility
Flexible working hours & posibility to work from home
Free Gym and Yoga membership

To apply for this position, hit the “apply for this job” button below

(reference to ad that I compared mine to
https://www.seek.com.au/job/41346507?type=standard#searchRequestToken=5af67e2f-cd7a-45d0-a2ba-ad6f9214e606)


4.2 – Designer

We are a new organization that is coming up in the IT industry. If you are to
join us, you will experience what it is like to be part of a dynamic, growing,
and energetic organization. We offer a stimulating workplace and a challenging
one at that. While we are only an up and coming organization, we have already
started our first major project and now you have the opportunity to join us on
this journey. Being a smaller organization, allows us to really show our
employees how much we appreciate and value them.

We are currently looking for a designer, we expect you to process the
requirements of our projects and then create the required navigation mechanics
and basic wireframes for the app to function. This is where you can begin to
work on the loop and feel of the app through UI/UX.

Key Skills Required

Organized
Experience in graphic design
Creativity
Innovation
Attention to detail

How we reward & support you:

If you are to become on of our valued employees, we offer a rewarding career
with many pathways and different projects that will make a difference to not
only your life, but all the lives around you. We also offer you the following:

Competitive Remuneration
Roster flexibility
Flexible working hours & posibility to work from home
Free Gym and Yoga membership

To apply for this position, hit the “apply for this job” button below

(Reference to ad that I compared mine to
https://www.seek.com.au/job/41319542?type=standard#searchRequestToken=4370eb84-0e1a-4370-9a6e-232ba053950d)

Position #3 – Developer

We are a new organization that is coming up in the IT industry. If you are to
join us, you will experience what it is like to be part of a dynamic, growing,
and energetic organization. We offer a stimulating workplace and a challenging
one at that. While we are only an up and coming organization, we have already
started our first major project and now you have the opportunity to join us on
this journey. Being a smaller organization, allows us to really show our
employees how much we appreciate and value them.

We are currently looking for a developer, you are expected to process the
finished UI/UX layouts and showcase them in our application. It is very
important to us that you are proficient in multiple computer languages. Due to
our app being cross platform, flexibility is key. Below is a list of key skills
you will need to require in order to be considered for this position.


Key Skills Required

Knowledge in HTML/CSS/JavaScript for PhoneGap and Cordova
Knowledge of C# for Xamarin
Knowledge of JavaScript for React Native
Self-motivated with a fun attitude and high energy levels.
Must be super-organized and like to work in an orderly and efficient
environment.
Strong attention to time management, detail and accuracy in your work
Be flexible and a proactive, supportive team member
Willing to learn company systems, processes and new tasks/skills

How we reward & support you:

If you are to become on of our valued employees, we offer a rewarding career
with many pathways and different projects that will make a difference to not
only your life, but all the lives around you. We also offer you the following:

Competitive Remuneration
Roster flexibility
Flexible working hours & posibility to work from home
Free Gym and Yoga membership

To apply for this position, hit the “apply for this job” button below

(Ad that I compared mine to
https://www.seek.com.au/job/41351525?type=standout#searchRequestToken=9bf936c4-a547-44b9-a86c-ba91fc38314e)


Position #4 – Quality Assurance Specialist

We are a new organization that is coming up in the IT industry. If you are to
join us, you will experience what it is like to be part of a dynamic, growing,
and energetic organization. We offer a stimulating workplace and a challenging
one at that. While we are only an up and coming organization, we have already
started our first major project and now you have the opportunity to join us on
this journey. Being a smaller organization, allows us to really show our
employees how much we appreciate and value them.

We are currently looking for a Quality Assurance Specialist, we need you to be
the first and most critical audience for our upcoming projects. You will test
numerous of projects over and over again until you believe that it is ready to
be presented to the customer. You need to look for all ways that we can improve
our projects and prove that these improvements are necessary. We highly regard
applicants who are Certified information systems auditor, are an experienced IT
Auditor and also has experience in leading or mentoring junior IT auditors.

Key Skills Required

Attention to detail
Creative
Have a clear vision on what the app is supposed to do
Analytical skills
Problem solving

How we reward & support you:
If you are to become on of our valued employees, we offer a rewarding career
with many pathways and different projects that will make a difference to not
only your life, but all the lives around you. We also offer you the following:

Competitive Remuneration
Roster flexibility
Flexible working hours & posibility to work from home
Free Gym and Yoga membership

(Reference to the ad that I compared mine to
seek.com.au/job/41311914?type=standard#searchRequestToken=505d9260-4ffc-44c6-847c-f69f9b40b838)

5 - Artifacts

5.1 GlobeLogger App


5.2 Firebase Database


5.3 GlobeLogger Website


6 - Group Reflection

6.1 Anabel Gonzalez
Being part of Team Terabyte has been challenging and rewarding at the same time.
 I’ve learned how difficult it can be balancing life and study, communicating
with people that I barely know and trusting others when delegating tasks. Even
though the team's communication for this assessment has improved, compared to
the previous one, I still believe that there is room for improvement as a group.
 I am really pleased to see what we have achieved as a team so far but I also
think that we could have produced a better final result & prototype if we had
collaborated more and managed time more efficiently. The project scope was
quite complex and individual members contribution wasn't enough to deliver an
artefact with more features and functions. Our weekly video conferences were
really productive and the report was written collaboratively. Although, I
strongly believe that if we would have counted with the presence of all team
members during at least some of the video conferences, it would have made a big
difference in the final result. We have tried to incorporate Github for version
control, but our main collaboration tool remained to be MS Team.

6.2 Joel Baden
My experience with the group working towards our project idea was a lot smoother
 and straight-forward than when we first met for Assignment 2, despite a few
set-backs. By that stage we had established some good routines for communicating
 & file-sharing, using face-time meetings effectively for clarifying, delegating
 and prioritising tasks (we held roughly two meetings per week). Between the
more active members (Nathan & Anabel), meetings were enjoyable and constructive
as we learned to rely on each other's skill-sets. Despite starting earlier on
our previous assignment, we would have benefitted from starting in the 2nd or
3rd week as we only had 4 members in our group to split the workload. This would
 have allowed us to develop our project further. However given our situation, I
was surprised by the amount of work we outputted and was especially impressed by
 how professional our prototype for GlobeLogger looked, despite it still being
in the early stages of development (props to Anabel). A big take-away that I’ve
learnt about group functioning would be the  importance of regular communication
 and trusting others. It ensures there’s a collective understanding when
assigning tasks, and creates a sense of accountability that motivates work and
sticking to deadlines.

6.3 Joseph Tselios
Being a member of Team Terabyte has been great, and I really do appreciate the
other members in the group. I do believe that the team’s strengths are found in
the leadership roles that Anabel and Nathan held. They both made sure that this
project ran as smoothly as possible and I do believe that they did achieve that.
 Communication to get work done amongst all members sufficed my expectations and
 I do believe that Nathan and Anabel are to thank for this. While our
 communication for completing tasks was done well, I believe that our
understanding of each other’s expectations and ideas fall through. At one-point
half the group thought we were going to design a website while the other half
thought we were designing an application. I believe that the amount of ‘teams’
that we have on Microsoft teams may have been a contributing factor to the
confusion. I’ve learned that when working in groups, you need to have a lot of
time spare to dedicate to the group to get proper results. I was surprised with
the quality of work that we were able to produce regardless of miscommunication.

6.4 Nathan Layt
The group did well to identify the problems of the previous assignment and make
adjustments to work towards a more successful collaboration.

The major issue identified last time was the time it took for the group to get
started, so for Assignment 3 the MS Teams group, which has served as our central
 communication and collaboration hub, was set up and configured the morning
 after Assignment 2 was submitted.

In the early stages of the project the group still struggled to make progress
for a number of reasons. One thing that made it very hard to move forward was
that we did not have our feedback from Assignment 2, which would play a vital
role in the development of the project. Also a significant amount of research
and experimentation was required to select the tools that would allow us to
develop our project to a prototype stage in the very limited time given to us in
 this assignment.

The group was surprised and disappointed when the highly critical feedback of
Assignment 2 arrived, and our vision for the project was transformed by the
suggestion that we should produce an app rather than a website. However, we now
had everything that was needed to start producing content as the adjusted
project plan became clear and development swiftly began, allowing us to identify
 the most efficient use of group member's contributions to work towards
deliverable targets, realistically alligned with our vision.

The proper use of GitHub for version control and log of activity could have been
 improved by some members but it was drastically better than A2. Although my own
 work is well documented in GitHub, a better idea of the contribution of other
members is reflected by the MS Teams hub.

6.5 Summary
Working as a group, we certainly developed our communication, organisation and a
 sense of accountability to each other from our first Assignment. The majority
of group processes and communication were achieved on Microsoft Teams, and
having experience using it from the previous assessment, we were able to use it
 proficiently allowing for better communication, scheduling regular meetings
and delegating tasks - which improved our overall workflow and motivation.
This time round, we capitalised on the skills of each member, assigning
specific tasks that suited their strengths. For example, due to her background
in app design, Anabel was tasked with the role of building and designing the
app, whilst the scope and vision of the project was assigned to Joel and Nathan,
 leaving Joseph to developing the video-content for the final presentation -
maximising our efficiency as a team. This in conjunction with starting earlier
on our project and establishing good habits of communication allowed for better
quality work.

As we had a small number of members contributing to the project, it would have
benefitted us to start earlier, anticipating the additional workload. Had we
allowed for this, we could have developed a more substantial prototype than what
 we delivered - in which the functionality was quite limited. Unfortunately the
distribution of work was relatively unequal between members at times or tasks
were left quite late, which caused undue stress on some members - this was most
apparent when developing the story-board and video-presentation. In terms of
communication, although we set adequate meetings, not all members (Joseph)
actively participated in our regular, group video-chats, thus missing out on
crucial-information at times & keeping them uninformed on group processes and
the direction of the project. This could of been easily prevented by them
actively participating in these sessions, keeping updated with the rest of the
group.

Similar to our experience working on Assignment 2, we were surprised by how much
 regular communication (face-to-face) plays in creating a shared sense of
accountability, and motivation - which has the secondary effect of alleviating
the pressure which arises from feeling like you're working alone. We have
learnt how valuable it is to have meetings such as these at semi-regular
intervals to keep updated and focused on specific tasks. In addition, we have
learnt that successfully working as a team requires that each member is equally
 motivated, plays to their strengths and contributes in an equal fashion. The
outcome of group work is linked to the group's cohesiveness.
